[Music]
how to make perfect pancakes impress
your brunch guests or just treat
yourself to light fluffy delicious
pancakes you will need three large bowls
a whisk one and a half cups of
unbleached all-purpose flour 3/4 of a
teaspoon of salt two teaspoons of baking
powder two tablespoons of sugar 2 large
eggs a hand mixer one and a quarter cups
of milk 3 tablespoons of melted butter
or vegetable oil additional vegetable
oil or cooking spray a spatula a greased
1/3 cup measure a cookie sheet and a
griddle or a heavy non-stick pan
optional malted milk powder frozen
blueberries more butter maple syrup and
various toppings step 1 in one mole mix
the dry ingredients thoroughly together
with a whisk so they're fully
incorporated into each other break up
any lumps diner pancakes are often made
with malted milk powder instead of sugar
using malt in your recipe will impart
that pancake house flavor step 2
separate the eggs into the other two
bowls whip the whites with a hand mixer
until they form stiff peaks and set
aside step 3 add the milk to the egg
yolks and beat them together with the
mixer until they're bubbling then mix in
the oil or butter step 4 add the dry
ingredients to the egg yolk mixture and
whisk them together very gently until
they're just incorporated don't mix too
much over work batter results in tough
dense pancakes fold in the egg whites in
two additions and let the batter rest
for 15 to 20 minutes step 5
heat your pan or griddle to about 350
degrees and lightly coat the surface
with cooking spray or vegetable oil test
the temperature by sprinkling a droplet
of water onto the surface if it's hot
enough the water will skitter and
evaporate don't use butter to grease
your pan
unless it's clarified butter regular
butter will burn
step 6 test your temperature by making a
trial pancake use your 1/3 cup measure
to gather a scoop of batter and pour it
onto your pan or griddle when the edges
of browned and bubbles appear on the top
flip the pancake
and cook the other side until it's
golden-brown resist the urge to press
down on the pancake it won't help it
cook any faster and it'll crush the
light texture to make blueberry pancakes
scatter a handful of frozen blueberries
into the batter as soon as you pour it
onto the griddle step 7
when you're satisfied that you've got
the right temperature use your 1/3 cup
measure to pour on as many helpings of
batter as you can comfortably fit on the
griddle there should be a bit of space
between them so that they don't overlap
or touch when you flip them step 8
pancakes should be served as soon as
they're cooked through if you're
whipping up a big batch
don't let your cooked cakes get cold
while the new ones are just hitting the
griddle instead lay the pancakes on a
cookie sheet make sure not to overlap or
stack them and place them in a just warm
oven until you're ready to serve step 9
serve your pancakes with traditional
sides like butter and maple syrup but
don't be afraid to experiment give
whipped cream jams or jellies peanut
butter sliced fruit and even melted
chocolate a try did you know the origins
of the pancake date back to the
prehistoric times when early cultures
cooked their grain and water mixtures on
hot rocks to make flat breads
[Music]